hi aspiring BBC good food and welcome to
posture basics here I'm going to be
teaching you how to cook rice I'm not
talking about those microwave pouches
I'm talking about cooking rice from
scratch
[Music]
the first type of rice we're going to be
cooking is basmati rice this is the way
I cook it at home two or three times a
week this is the way that works for me
every time so I'm just going to run you
through it so you want about 60 70 grams
of rice per person and then you want to
soak it a half an hour in cold water so
I've taken about three hundred grams of
rice here and I've soaked it in cold
water for half an hour the next thing
we're going to do is we're gonna rinse
the starchy water of it now some people
do this in a sieve I simply do it under
the tap swish it around a bit and then
pour the water off and then do that
until the water runs clear can you see
that the water we can see the rice
through the water now so the water isn't
cloudy I mean it's never going to be
completely clear but we've rinsed it
four or five times and that is just what
we were after
so one more time and then we're gonna
pour off as much water as we can
so the next bit I've always done by eye
and I was taught to cover the rice by
about a centimeter and a half of water
so that means you can cook however much
you want doesn't matter if you're
putting it for 20 people or for three
people if you cover it by centimeter and
a half of water you're fine now I didn't
mention this earlier because I thought I
need to be a bit more precise with this
and it turns out that a centimeter and a
half is about one and a half times
exactly the amount of rice so 300 grams
of rice and I've weighed out 450 grams
of water just to be covered by
centimeter Cheers
as far as I can work out one and a half
times the amount of rice so let's just
double check that dude there we go we're
gonna bring this up to a hard boil with
a lid on and then we're gonna stir it
once we're gonna leave you off the heat
for 10 minutes stir it again to fluff it
up then leave it again with the lid on
for five minutes and that's what works
me every time perfect rice so now I'm
going to bring it up to the boil with
the lid on I'm just showing you this
isn't a hard boil yet this is just
coming up to the boil I want it to boil
really really vigorously first we lean
on the minute or two
but this is what I'm talking about all
the water started to be absorbed and you
can start to see holes in them in the
rice now we're just going to give this a
stir make sure nothing sticks on the
bottom then this is coming off the heat
and we're going to set the time for ten
minutes so our prices had five minutes
more with the heat off and all you need
to do now is serve it so let me give
that a stir and you will see we have a
perfect fluffy basmati rice cooked ever
so simply just to run through that was
hard boil lid on ten minutes with the
heat off give it a stir five minutes
with the lid on and then we have
absolutely beautiful perfect basmati
rice next up we're going to be cooking
long grain rice now long grain rice I
could be exactly the same way as past us
we need to put a large pan of water up
some boils up to you and you sort it or
not with rice I tend to sort it at the
end rather sort of the water but some
people salt in it so you just need to
bring a large pan of water up to the
boil and then we're going to boil our
rice for about 12 to 15 minutes until
it's cooked 12 minutes is still up and
ardente 15 minutes has cooked all the
way through and then we're going to
drain it like you would pass that and
then we're going to leave it to drain
for about five minutes in the colander
just to fluff up so it's as simple as
that
[Music]
give it a stir so it doesn't stick to
the bottom just leave that to simmer
simmer boil for about 12 to 15 minutes
so I just been boiling for about 12
minutes I've tried a bit and it is
cooked and we're just gonna drain them
in a colander the same way you would
drain pasta so we've left the rice for
about five minutes and it's just been
draining but it's still really hot and
as you can see they've got fluffy long
grain rice so that is how I cook long
grain rice so next up we're going to
cook a peeler or a peeler here I've
cooked off some vegetables it's
completely up to you what you want to
put in it but classically it's like
cooked onion and then whatever else you
want to put in it some people put meat
in it I'm keeping this one
vigo so I've put down some onions and
some cauliflower and some flour up with
some spices some Indian spices and the
quantities for this are 250 grams of
basmati rice and 500 milliliters or 500
grams of vegetable stock so for this
we're always going to want to double the
quantity of rice to stop we're going to
scatter in our rice we're going to pull
this block over and
low heat with the lid off the ten
minutes and we're gonna leave it to Stan
we're not gonna start leave it for
another ten minutes I'm just going to
give that a stir to coat the rice in the
spices and just bring everything
together like so
remember the pans on like a medium heat
here just got a pull rode our hot stock
or hot water you want a stop when our
water to be hot just bring that up to a
simmer I'm going to turn down the heat
I'm going to leave it to cook for ten
minutes something that goes
let's bring that up to a simmer then the
lift goes on and then we're gonna leave
that on a low heat for 10 minutes so our
PDF has had 10 minutes I've turned the
heat off now as you can see through the
leader I take the lid off I wouldn't
normally just so you can see the rice
has absorbed all the stock but we're
going to leave it off they need to carry
on cooking for another 10 minutes so
just for the sake of the video I'm just
going to show you there's no liquid left
at all we're not going to stir it we're
just going to leave it for another 10
minutes just to carry on hooking so
Peter has rested for 10 minutes and I'm
just gonna give that a stir and you're
going to see the rice is cooked
beautifully
and vegetables all the way through it so
that is how you make a peanut so
remember it's not earlier and said
double the right of the liquid it's
double the liquid to rice double the
liquid to rice so remember to 250 grams
of rice I need 500 milliliters of stock
so those are our three ways to cook rice
we did the basmati rice which we just
turned off the heat and let it cook in
the absorption method we've got our long
grain rice which we could just like
pasta and we've got our peel our or our
peeler which you cooked by pouring stock
over it cooking it for 10 minutes
leaving it this has been foster basics
rice our body does Missouri thank you
very much for watching and don't forget
stay home and get cooking
[Music]
you